# Quantum-Tunnelling-Simulations
Computational Study of Quantum Tunnelling and Reflection

Filename  | Function
------------- | -------------
freewavepacket_animation.py  | Displays an animation of the time evolution for a free gaussian wave-packet. At the end of the script, total probability and peak value of the wave-packet are plotted against time. The number of x-axis points 'N' , has been chosen to preserve simulation accuracywhilst providing a smooth animation, with little buffer time. The same applies for the final integration time, 'tf', and time step 'dt'.
wavepacket_single_potential_barrier.py  | <ul><li>Displays an animation of a Gaussian wave-packet impinging on a potential barrier. The average wavenumber,'k_0',can be changed by changing variable 'k'. The potential barrier height can be changed by changing the variable 'f'. The number of x-axis points 'N' , has been chosen to preserve simulation accuracy whilst providing a smooth animation, with little buffer time. The same applies for the final integration time, 'tf', and time step 'dt'.</li> <li> At the end of the animation, the program produces a figure of the total probability of finding the particle to the left of the barrier as a function of time.</li></ul>
single_potential_barrier_3d_plot.py | <ul><li> Displays a 3D time-evolution/ time-series plot of the wave-packet impinging on potential barrier at equally spaced time steps.<\/li> <li> Plots the wavefunction at the final integration time </li> <li> The average wavenumber,'k_0',can be changed by changing variable 'k'. The potential barrier height can be changed by changing the variable 'f'.</li><li>The number of x-axis points 'N' , has been chosen to preserve simulation accuracy whilst maintaining a speedy run-time.</li><li>The  final integration time, 'tf', and time step 'dt', have been chosen to preserve clarity in the final 3D plot image.</li><li>The code is set up to provide an aesthetically pleasing plot.</li></ul>
TR_coefficients_single_barrier.py | <ul><li> Calculates the transmission and reflection probabilities and plots them against average wavenumber k_0. </li></ul>
wavepacket_double_potential_barrier.py | <ul><li>Displays an animation of a Gaussian wave-packet impinging on a double potential barrier. The average wavenumber,'k_0',can be changed by changing variable 'k'. The potential barrier height can be changed by changing the variable 'f'. The number of x-axis points 'N' , has been chosen to preserve simulation accuracy whilst providing a smooth animation, with little buffer time. The same applies for the final integration time, 'tf', and time step 'dt'.</li><li>At the end of the animation, the program produces a figure of the total probability of finding the particle to the left of the barrier as a function of time.</li></ul>
double_potential_barrier_3d_plot.py | <ul><li> Displays a 3D time-evolution/ time-series plot of the wave-packet impinging on double potential barrier, at equally spaced time steps.</li><li> Plots the wavefunction at the final integration time.</li><li> The average wavenumber,'k_0',can be changed by changing variable 'k'. The potential barrier height can be changed by changing the variable 'f'. The number of x-axis points 'N' , has been chosen to preserve simulation accuracy whilst mainting a speedy run-time. The  final integration time, 'tf', and time step 'dt', have been chosen to preserve clarity in the final 3D plot image. If you make 'dt' too small, or 'tf' too big, the plot looks more cluttered.</li><li> The code is set up to provide an aesthetically pleasing plot</li></ul>
Probability_Decay_Double_Barrier_Gap.py | <ul><li> Produces a plot of the confinement probability against time for a wave-packet between two potential barriers. </li><li> Works out the polynomial fitting parameters for the decay for different values of average wavenumber k_0 </li></ul>
2Dsimulation_datagenerator_Potential.py | <ul> <li> Generates data for each frame of an animation for a Gaussian wave-packet scattering of a potential barrier in 2D.</li><li> Currently this script is very time-consuming. The data files have been provided (Anim_Data_200frame_UBarrier_U=3.npy) , which allows the Animation script (2Dsimulation_animator.py) to animate the simulation.</li></ul>
2Dsimulation_animator.py | Reads the data generated by the 2Dsimulation_datagenerator_Potential.py and stitches the frames together to play an animation. It also saves animation as an mp4 file.
Anim_Data_200frame_UBarrier_U=3.npy | Animation data, pre-baked, using 2Dsimulation_datagenerator_Potential.py. This is read by 2Dsimulation_animator.py to produce an animation and save as an mp4.	
2dwavepacket_200frame_UBarrier_U=3.mp4 | Here's an animation made earlier using the the previous 3 scripts. 
